# BAO Token & Vote Escrowed BAO (veBAO)

The BAO token is the instrument through which governance power and revenue sharing occurs for Bao's synthetics markets. Users must lock their BAO tokens into the voting escrow contract making them non-transferrable to receive veBAO, in order to participate in governance

The BAO token is inflationary and mints new tokens as emissions to the LP tokens incentivized through BAO liquidity Gauges that have staked their LP (more on this in ["Bao Liquidity Gauges & BAO emissions"]()).

## Vote Escrowed BAO

veBAO is a non-transferable token that can only be received by locking BAO tokens up into the Voting Escrow contract for a maximum of 4 years. 1000 BAO tokens locked for 4 years is equal to 1000 veBAO token and the tokens that are locked decay in their governance weighting over time as the lock expiry date approaches closer. For example, if an address locks 1000 BAO for 4 years, at the start timestamp of the lock, they will have ~1000 veBAO tokens; after 2 years have passed into the 4 year lock, assuming their were no extensions made to the lock by the token holder, there will be roughly half the veBAO tokens the address started with as the veBAO locking function decays the user's veBAO balance as the lock becomes more mature/gets closer to expiration.

Users have the ability to extend their veBAO locks if they want to maintain a certain level of governance power instead of letting it decay.

Each address can only have 1 lock at a time.

### Fees

Holders of veBAO (AKA, those who lock up their BAO in the voitng escrow contract) will be able to claim fees in baoUSD on a weekly basis in proportion to how much veBAO balance they have. Those with the most veBAO balance will be able to claim the most amount of fees. Fees are generated by protocol revenue and given to veBAO holders.

The BAO Matrix:
## Bao token Matrix here


